So this is the next thing we need to
wrap our heads around before we can ever
forget our doggo that we've so
desperately want, okay?
So yeah, so a weight tells JavaScript,
okay, don't be Joey.
Don't be just like trying to go wait stop,
like the Spice Girl said, and
wait for my unsynchronized operation
to be done before you go on and
continue trying to run my code.
So in the case of a promise,
what it does is it waits for
the promise to be resolved to the value
that JavaScript is giving us an IOU for
before it goes on and
continues running our program.
So for example, when we call fetch,
we get a promise.
And if we await, we put the word
await before our call to fetch.
We're telling JavaScript, don't just give
me back that pending promise like you just
did when I put it in with no await.
Wait for the promise to be done, and
then give me the value of the promise,
and in this case fetch
returns a response object.
So this is going back to kind of like how
HTTP requests and responses work which is
a little bit out of scope and
sort of more general web concept.
But suffice it to say that
when we try to fetch a URL or
when in my browser,
I just type in frontendmasters.com.
The browser sends a request for
that resource at that location,
and then it receives, hopefully,
a response back with the webpage,
or with the hounds in this case.
And so let's try now,
what happens if we use a weight.
So now, if I use a weight,
I can then get the value returned or
the value that that promise resolves to.
In this case the value of the fetch
call returns a promise but
what I really want is the value
that that promise is an IOU for and
that's what await is gonna grab for me,
and it's going to tell JavaScript stop.
Wait for that promise to resolve, and
then this whole await fetch is going to
evaluate to a response, which I can
capture in my variable response here.
So let's try it out.
Okay, so now, we've actually got
something that looks more meaningful.
It's still not a list of hound, though,
so we'll talk about that in a second.
But now,
what we've got is a response object.
And here, we're starting to see
some things that sound very HTTP.
For example,
we have like a status 200 which I don't
know if y'all remember my little
friend HTTP Cat 200 means okay.
Success, all good.
[LAUGH] So there could be other things,
like 404 is another one
that you might have seen.
Not found.
>> [LAUGH]
>> A little treat for
the cat people, cuz they've been
seriously underserved by my GIFs here.
[LAUGH] So, for example,
it has a status back,
and then it has some other stuff going on.
So this is a response object,
which is JavaScript's representation
of an HTTP response similar to how a HTTP,
sorry, an HTML element.
Object is its representation
of something from the DOM.
And what we really care about
here is in its body property,
the response body,
is what we really care about,
or as the Spice Girls remind us,
slam your body down.
The body is what we really
want to be working with here,
when we're trying to request a resource.
But if we look back at our object, okay,
we see there's a body property, but
it says it's a readable stream.
Why don't realize?
This is a stream of data that,
well, it's apparently readable,
so there must be some way to read it.
So what we need to do is we need to
read the data that's returned that
that's part of this response or
that it's body.
So in other words,
we need to slam the body down.
[LAUGH] And
that's gonna be our next task now
responses have a method called JSON.
Response.JSON is going to,
Read that stream of
bytes that is the body data and
parse it as a JSON object,
which we said is what we
expect at the resource
at this API endpoint
that we're looking for.
So it's JSON object,
JavaScript object notation object.
So this is just a conventional format
that JavaScript knows how to read.
And the way it knows how to read
that is through this dot JSON
property that's built into
response type objects.
So let's try to do this now.
Response.JSON, and
if you have a really, really good eye,
you might be noticing something weird
here, but we can talk about in a second.
So if I call that response.JSON,
gosh, another promise.
And so this is an example of
what we were just talking about.
Another operation that doesn't
involve any network activity.
It doesn't involve me making
a telephone call to the dog API.
It does however take some time for
JavaScript to go reading through all of
those bytes and then making
sense of them as a JSON object.
So .JSON Then on a response object is
also something that gives me an IOU for
a value in asynchronous operation,
that gives me a promise.
But maybe it doesn't take as much time
as let's say talking to the network.
Question?
>> Should we add a weight
in front of response.JSON?
>> Well, gee, golly,
sounds like somebody's got it.
Yeah.
So again, a weight is our way of
telling JavaScript, hey, stop,
wait for my promise to be done and
then give me the value of the promise,
not just the promise itself.
An IOU is useless to me, I can't throw
a ball to play fetch with an IOU.
[LAUGH] I want the dogs, I want
the dogs list I don't want the IOU for
the dogs list, so
yes we are going to use more awaits here.
And it's starting to feel like
maybe this is getting frustrating,
like we have a lot of stuff to work
through here and at a certain point you
might want to give up like Gretchen
Wieners with trying to make fetch happen.
And you might feel like Regina George is
saying stop trying to make this happen.
I mean, girls, but don't give up.
Let's not give up.
We have our friend.
Wait.
So let's try again.
So, now what we've got, we're gonna
we're gonna have to start over,
essentially, but that's okay.
[LAUGH] We're going to
have to await the fetch.
And then, await the response.json
in order to actually get our body.
Finally, we will slam the body down,
so let's try this again.
And, I'm just gonna reload here.
Okay, so
now I'm gonna execute these separately.
So, we're doing this the same time,
we've got response is a weight fetch.
So response is a response object,
and then I'm going to call .JSON.
Wait that excellent, excellent
detective work, folks in the chat.
And then I can capture that
value as a variable like body.
So now, okay, now, body is this object,
that is actually what we expected,
which is what our browser found,
when we went to that URL and
actually has our dog data.
Finally, that is so fetch.
Help you follow folks we're saving
grace because anyway I couldn't resist
the fetch.
So now we have some data.
Success, hooray, fulfilled,
resolved, finally awaited.
But now we have to do something with it.
So, [LAUGH] our work has just begun, but
we got the data at least, all right?
Let me pause here cuz this
is a lot of a waiting.
[LAUGH] There's one tiny,
ginormous can of worms.
I want to not open, but let you know is
out there as a can of worms in JavaScript.
Yes, question.
>> What can we do when our
fetch request throws an error?
>> JavaScript does also give us tools for
being able to look out for
the possibility that
we might get an error.
And any time that we're fetching
something from the internet,
it's possible that the website is down
that dog API has gone offline, or
that they changed how
their URL system works.
And the URL that I thought was gonna work
doesn't return what I thought it would
anymore, or
any number of other things could go wrong.
A shark could have chewed
through the cables.
So we do wanna be aware of the fact
that something could go wrong here.
And so far we've been writing very
optimistic code that assumes that
everything's gonna be fine.
So a little bit later, we're gonna
be talking about how we can handle
errors in JavaScript, as it's also
called how we can catch errors.
So there's a construct called try
catch that we're gonna look at
a little bit later that is
gonna allow us to do this.
>> What happens if we just use fetch?
Do we just never get an answer?
>> What happens if we just use Fetch,
do you mean like for
example if we do like let,
new response equals fetch,
>> No, no, maybe do the fetch the dog.
>> Yeah, sure right.
>> It's running on console, right?
And there's a promise pending.
>> Uh-huh.
And then what do we do?
How do we talk to that promise anymore?
How do we,
>> It's just never gonna give
us an answer.
We just wait forever?
>> Is it just gonna be pending forever?
So, what's happening here,
is that since we didn't like
capture this value at all,
we didn't assign it to a variable.
We didn't like assign it to a property
of an object or something like that,
like we don't have any way of pointing at
the promise that this fetch evaluated to.
So what happens in our dev
tools in our console here is
that JavaScript evaluated this code,
this line fetch.
It saw that it evaluated to a promise and
at the time that evaluated it,
the promise was in state pending, and
it gave me that back in the console.
>> Now in the background,
somewhere that promise has gone ahead, and
its lifetime is like
lived a million years.
And maybe isn't a different state owl,
maybe or maybe not, we don't know, but
now we don't really have
any way to talk to it and
ask it hey promise, what's your state now?
However, there is a way.
So what we've been talking about is await,
because
wait I think is the easiest way for
us to say hey, JavaScript stop, pretend,
that this asynchronous operation, that
you're gonna go and do some time later.
Pretend that it's synchronous, and
that we actually have to wait for
it to be done before we keep
going on with our code.
There is another way that
we can tell JavaScript,
hey JavaScript when this promise is done,
when it has fulfilled or
rejected, do something with it,
and that is the then method on a promise.
So we're not really gonna practice,
like working with this,
because await I think makes it
easier to do a similar thing.
So then was the earlier way of dealing
with promises where what happens is So
we say, promise.then, and
we give it a callback.
And usually,
the way the callback works is it takes in
whatever the value that
the promise resolved to.
And sorry, I'm saying callback because
we're writing a small anonymous function
that's gonna execute some time later.
We're telling JavaScript take
this function and call it back to
me whenever this thing happens,
same as we did with our event handlers,
where we also passed in
a callback function.
So we'll say like something like
console.log value, for example.
Now what should happen let's find
out is that JavaScript is gonna
wait until it sees that this
promise has resolved or fulfilled.
And then, it's gonna take whatever
value it fulfilled to pass it in
to the little anonymous function I've
declared here with my arrow, and
then do whatever I set to do,
which in this case was log the value.
So let's try.
So now, if we see this whole
thing resolved to a promise, and
at the time that it evaluated
in the console, it was pending.
But then a few instants later JavaScript,
got the resolution got
the fulfilled value, and
then called my callback which
console logged the response.
So, there is another way to
work with these promises.
Which is the then method.
But if you're like me, it's maybe becomes
a little bit tricky to think about like,
okay, give me a function
that I'm gonna wait free.
I'm gonna give you a function you're
gonna wait to call it until you're
done with the promise.
Whereas if we use a weight, we can just
sort of pretend like that promise is just
a regular function call that's gonna
produce a value, if that makes sense.
Sorry, I should say, we can pretend that
the asynchronous operation like fetch,
which returns a promise, is just a regular
function call that returns a value instead
of an asynchronous.
I owe you of a value.
So, these are both options, and
you can read all about promises, and
then in our BFF MDM.
>> Could I write await in front of
any function, I want for to wait?
>> Can you like, wait for, for example?
>> Yes, you can't.
>> You sure can?
>> Okay.
>> But, as we're gonna see in a second,
you can't write await just anywhere.
I can write it in the console.
I can write it in a few other places, but
I can't just throw away it around, but
we're gonna talk about that in a second.